Git Fundamentals

Briefly explain the following concepts in your own words:

Version Control System (VCS): 
  software that tracks and records the changes that a user makes to their 
  files/programs and mediates the sharing of these materials between users. 
Git Repository: 
  a set of files that is configured to be mediated by git as a version control 
  system
Commit: 
  an instance of assigning a new reference to the state of a git repository
  after it has undergone some changes
Push & Pull: 
  sharing some commited version of a git repository, with a push 
  operation corresponding to the case where you send your local changes to a remote 
  version of the repository, and a pull involving drawing in changes from that
  repository to your local device.
Describe two main advantages of using Git for version control in R projects.
  The materials associated with the project can be tracked as they change in 
  different ways, enabling you to recover previous forms of the files that may
  be useful, and also systematizing the process of documenting changes to the work.


Git in RStudio

Install and configure Git if you haven’t already.
Create an R script to load the alcohol consumption dataset (drinks.csv) from https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/alcohol-consumption.Links to an external site.
Create a README file describing the script, add it to the local repository.
Use Git commands in RStudio's terminal to:
Initialize a new Git repository for your project folder.
Stage your R script for the next commit.
Add a commit message explaining the changes you made to the script.
Repeat for the README file.
Commit your staged changes to the local repository.
Briefly explain the difference between "add" and "commit" commands in Git.

GitHub Integration

Create a free account on GitHub.com if you haven't already and report your username.
Create a new public repository on GitHub and give it a descriptive name, e.g., “BIOS524_HW_3”. Report the URL to this repository.
Use Git commands in RStudio to:
Connect your local repository to the newly created GitHub repository.
Push your local commits to the remote repository on GitHub.
Verify your changes are successfully reflected on your GitHub repository by visiting it in your browser.
Briefly describe the benefits of using a public vs. private repository on GitHub for collaboration.

Collaboration and Version Control

Add your instructor or your classmate to your GitHub repository (Hint: you need to ask for their GitHub usernames). 
Describe how you would:
Share the project code and data with your partner.
Track individual contributions and merge code changes without conflicts.
Revert to a previous version of the code if necessary.
Clone and fork your classmate’s repository